DOCS-236 Client Failover Tutorial (#68)
hazelcast/cloud-docs: tutorials/modules/ROOT/pages/failover-clients-with-hazelcast-cloud.adoc

= Configuring a Failover Client
:url-code-sample-client-failover: https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-cloud-code-samples/tree/master/client-failover

> :description: In this tutorial, you'll update the code in a Java client to automatically connect to a secondary, failover cluster if it cannot connect its original, primary cluster. You'll also run a simple test to make sure that your configuration is correct and then adjust it to include exception handling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: In this tutorial, you'll update the code in a Java client to automatically connect to a secondary, failover cluster if it cannot connect to its original, primary cluster. You'll also run a simple test to make sure that your configuration is correct and then adjust it to include exception handling.
```

Author: Updated as requested.

:page-layout: tutorial
:page-product: cloud
:page-categories: Manage Clusters
:page-est-time: 30 mins

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:page-lang: java

```

Allows users to find this tutorial when they filter for those that use Java

Author: Updated as requested.

{description}

== Context

> Failover is an important feature of systems that rely on near-constant availability. In Hazelcast, a failover client automatically redirects your connection from one cluster that has problems to a second running cluster.

Author: Updated as requested.

Consider using a failover client with xref:cloud:ROOT:wan-replication.adoc[WAN replication] as part of your disaster recovery strategy.

[[step-1-setup]]

> == Step 1. Cluster and Client Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Step 1. Set Up Clusters and Clients
```

Author: Updated as requested.

Create two Serverless clusters that you'll use as your primary and secondary clusters and then download and connect sample Java clients to them.

. xref:cloud:ROOT:create-serverless-cluster.adoc[Create the Serverless cluster] that you'll use as your primary cluster. When the cluster is ready to use, setup details for the Java client are displayed.
. Follow the instructions in *Java Client Quick Setup* to download, extract, and connect the preconfigured Java client to your primary cluster.
. xref:cloud:ROOT:create-serverless-cluster.adoc[Create the Serverless cluster] that you'll use as your secondary cluster. 

> . This time when the setup details for the Java client are displayed, from the *Java Client Advanced Setup* section record the following connection details:

Reviewer: This information is in the client code. I don't think we need users to record it separately. Consider removing this.

Author: That makes sense. It was just the process I used.

** *Cluster name*
** *Discovery token*
** *Keystore and truststore password*.

> . Repeat step 2 for your secondary cluster. You have two running clusters with connected Java clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. . Follow the instructions in *Java Client Quick Setup* to download, extract, and connect the preconfigured Java client to your secondary cluster.

You now have two running clusters, and you've checked that both Java clients can connect.
```

Reviewer: I prefer to repeat the instruction than refer to steps. It's less confusing for users to read an instruction that look for numbered steps.

Author: Updated as requested.

> . Now that you have checked that both Java clients can connect, shut them down. Either press kbd:[Ctrl+C] or type `exit` at the console. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The new clients do not continue running. They complete and exit automatically.

Author: Makes sense to remove.

[[step-2-configuration]]
== Step 2. Configure a Failover Client

To create a failover client, update the configuration and code of the Java client for your primary cluster. 

Start by adding the keystore files from the Java client of your secondary cluster.

.	Go to the directory where you extracted the Java client for your secondary cluster and then navigate to `src/main/resources`.

> . Rename the `client.keystore` and `client.trustore` files so they don't overwrite the files in your primary cluster keystore. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Rename the `client.keystore` file to `client2.keystore` and rename the `client.truststore` file to `client2.truststore` to avoid overwriting the files in your primary cluster. 
```

Author: Updated as requested.

. Copy both files over to the `src/main/resources` directory of your primary cluster.

> Update the code in the Java client (`ClientwithSsl.java`) of your primary cluster to include a failover class and the connection details for your secondary cluster. You'll need the connection details that you recorded in <<step-1-setup, Step 1>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the code in the Java client (`ClientwithSsl.java`) of your primary cluster to include a failover class and the connection details for your secondary cluster. You can find these connection details in the Java client of your secondary cluster.
```

Author: Updated as requested.

    props.setProperty("javax.net.ssl.keyStore", classLoader.getResource("client2.keystore").toURI().getPath()); // <7>
    props.setProperty("javax.net.ssl.keyStorePassword", "YOUR_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD");
    props.setProperty("javax.net.ssl.trustStore",
       classLoader.getResource("client2.truststore").toURI().getPath()); // <7>
    props.setProperty("javax.net.ssl.trustStorePassword", "YOUR_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD");
    ClientConfig config = new ClientConfig();
    config.getNetworkConfig().setRedoOperation(true);
    config.getNetworkConfig().setSSLConfig(new SSLConfig().setEnabled(true).setProperties(props));
    config.getNetworkConfig().getCloudConfig()
       .setDiscoveryToken("YOUR_DISCOVERY_TOKEN")
       .setEnabled(true);
    config.setProperty("hazelcast.client.cloud.url", "YOUR_CLIENT_URL");
    config.setClusterName("YOUR_CLUSTER_ID");
    config.getConnectionStrategyConfig().getConnectionRetryConfig().setClusterConnectTimeoutMillis(10000);
    return config;
    }
}

----
<1> Add import for the `ClientFailoverConfig` class.
<2> Create a `ClientFailoverConfig` object.
<3> For testing purposes, uncomment the `nonStopMapExample(client)` method.

> <4> Add a private static method for `getPrimaryClientConfig`. This creates the config object for the primary cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> Create the config object for the primary cluster. 
```

Author: Updated as requested.

<5> For testing purposes, set `setClusterConnectTimeoutMillis` to `10000` milliseconds or ten seconds. This reduces the timeout period before the failover client tries to connect to an alternative cluster.   

> <6> Add a private static method for `getSecondaryClientConfig` with connection details for your secondary cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<6> Create the config object for the secondary cluster.
```

Author: Updated as requested.

> <7> Rename keystore files from the Java client of your secondary cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<7> Provide the keystore files for the secondary cluster. 
```

Author: Updated as requested.

[[step-3-testing]]
== Step 3. Verify Failover

Check that your failover client automatically connects to the secondary cluster when your primary cluster is stopped.

. Make sure that both Serverless clusters are running.
. Connect your failover client to the primary cluster in the same way as you did in <<step-1-setup, Step 1>>.

> . Stop your primary cluster. From the dashboard of your primary cluster, select *Manage Cluster* > *Stop*. On the console, you'll see the following messages in order as the client disconnects from your primary cluster and reconnects to the secondary cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Stop your primary cluster. From the dashboard of your primary cluster, select *Manage Cluster* > *Stop*. In the console, you'll see the following messages in order as the client disconnects from your primary cluster and reconnects to the secondary cluster:
```

Author: Updated as requested.

** `CLIENT_DISCONNECTED`
** `CLIENT_CONNECTED`
** `CLIENT_CHANGED_CLUSTER`  

If you're using the `nonStopMapExample` in the sample Java client, your client stops. This is expected because write operations are not retryable when a cluster is disconnected. The client has sent a put request to the cluster but has not received a response, and so the result of the request is unknown. To prevent the client from overwriting more recent write operations, this write operation is stopped and an exception is thrown. 

[[step-4-exception-handling]]
== Step 4. Exception Handling

Update the `nonStopMapExample` in your failover client to trap the exception that is thrown when the primary cluster disconnects.

. Add the following try-catch block to your failover client.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

Author: Updated as requested.

.nonStopMapExample
[source,java]

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Updated as requested.

----
while (true) {
  int randomKey = random.nextInt(100_000);
  try {
      map.put("key-" + randomKey, "value-" + randomKey);
  } catch (Exception e) {
      // Captures exception from the disconnected client
      System.out.println("Exception (" + e.getClass().getCanonicalName() + ") " + e.getMessage());
  }

----

> [start=2]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Updated as requested.
